The primary aim of our project was to put our relatively newly acquired skills together to create a dynamic web application. We chose to specifically create a typing test game. For the back-end of the web app, we used the Flask framework and programmed in Python. Using Flask, we were able to make our html pages dynamic, functional and connected for the user. We implemented code to direct the user from one web page to another, to submit forms, to pass in variables from SQL to HTML, among other things. We used db.execute to create a  database of user accounts and users previous typing history. We also used a python library, werkzeug.security, to keep our users' password secure.

In app.py, the file where we implemented our python code, we integrated SQL to get user input from the web app and display it back in other HTML pages. We imposed certain requirements for the username and password upon registration. We directed the user from certain pages to other buttons when forms were submitted. It is important to note that the apology function used is not our own and we give credit to cs50 heads for it.

We felt it was most effective to create the functionality of the typing test using javascript. For coherence, we created a special folder for our javascript code and linked it to our index html page containing the game. Javascript can very seamlessly pass variables into html, something we thought was useful in creating our game. Document object models were used specifically to connect variables to our HTML pages. To give all the needed credit and to uphold good academic conduct, we give credit to youtuber Traversy Media for inspiring our implementation of the typing test functionality (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yw-SYSG-028). With javascript, we created an array of words to be displayed for the user to type. We continuously shuffled this array using a known shuffling method and outputted the random first letter of the array to display word after word randomly. We created functions to start, play and end the game and to match typed words instantaneously to displayed words. This was made possible by the use of DOMs. Our main objective was to create a dynamic web app around a javascript implementation, and fixate static pages within a dynamic framework, which we did through Flask and took us the most effort in implementing. 

URL of our video: https://youtu.be/YV_EnPMF6Z8
